This assignment was locked Oct 10 at 8am.
Reading

Unix and Linux System Administration Handbook 5ed
   PAM pp. 590-593

Background

Users have ignored your new password policy and it has come to your attention that some users are logging into machines in the DMZ to avoid email filters on Machine E that block email with questionable content.

Michael Scott has agreed to let you limit who can log into each of the DMZ machines and to enforce a new password policy when users change their passwords.

Assignment

Update all machines to limit who may login using the pam_access module.  The entries for Dunder-Mifflin users in /etc/password and /etc/shadow must be the same across all machines.  Who may log in must be limited by PAM.
Users root, the system administrator (you), Michael Scott and Dwight Schrute must be able to log into all machines.
All users must be able to log in to Machine E.
In addition to (2), only Pam Beesly, Andy Bernard and Kelly Kapoor must be able to log in to Machine C and Machine D.
In addition to (2), only members of the accounting group must be able to log into Machine F.
The password policy must be enforced on all machines using PAM.  Passwords must be at least 10 characters long, and contain at least 2 digits, 2 uppercase, and 1 non alphanumeric character.  Length credit must not be given for lower case characters.  You must explicitly specify all the parameters involved because defaults are inconsistently implemented.  Do not expire passwords.  The policy only applies to password changes.
Students in 5113:  Provide a description of how you would limit DM employees other than root, yourself and Dwight Schrute to only be able to log in to a system between 7am and 6pm on weekdays.  Do not apply apply this limitation.  Simply describe the specific method you would use to implement this restriction.
Extra credit (25%):  Provide a script that will test whether you completed parts 1, 2, 4 and 5 of the assignment correctly on machines A,B, C, D and F for all Dunder-Mifflin users but not root.  The script must be called lab6-check, use the #! header to set the appropriate interpreter and require no command line parameters to run.  That does mean you will need to include passwords in the script which is a huge security risk, so set a throw away password for these users.  We will fix this in Lab 7.  The script must verify that the designated users can log into the various machines, and that other users can not log in. The output from the script should be something like this
Machine A
1 mscott can log in
0 dschrute should be able to log in
0 pbeesly should not be able to log in
1 abernard cannot log in
...
Machine B
...
The leading 1 indicates that this is correct, a 0 indicates that this is not correct.  If you did he assignment correctly, there should be no leading 0s.  I will run your script on an Ubuntu machine connected to the VPN.
Extra extra credit:  You can earn an additional 5 extra credit points if your script uses data structures and loops to perform the test in a compact and  elegant way.
Hints.

These requirements are additive to previous labs.  Make sure that you implement corrections pointed out by previous labs.
On debian machines, you need to install the libpam-pwquality package.
What to submit.

I will use my dreaded grading script to test whether your machines apply the specific restrictions.
Submit your notes on how you accomplished these tasks as a PDF file.
Graduate students, include your solution to (7) in the same PDF.
For the extra credit upload your script.
Include the approximate time it took to complete the assignment in your notes.
Rubrik.

Evaluation	4113	5030	5113
PAM Access	80	80	70
Password Quality	20	20	15
Timed Access	---	---	15
Extra Cedit	25	25	25
Total	100	100	100
Submission
