This assignment was locked Oct 17 at 8am.
Reading

Unix and Linux System Administration Handbook 5ed
   Configuration Management Chapter 23.
  Pay specific attention to 23.5 Introduction to Ansible

Ansible Builtin online documentationLinks to an external site.

Background

Maintaining individual machines is becoming a major headache.  For example, users change passwords on one machine and then pester you with password resets.  You decide to do Configuration Management with Ansible to help streamline the process.

Machine E will be your control node.  To keep things simple, you decide to set up ansible to use the personal login of the sysadmin to access managed machines (rather than set up an ansible user) and then elevate permissions using sudo.  However, you should write the playbooks such that if a second administrator is hired, he or she could use the same playbooks without modification.

Assignment

Set up password-less login for yourself (the sysadmin with user name the same as your identikey) from Machine E to all other machines.  You should already have sudo access on all machines from this login.
Install ansible on Machine E from the Rocky Linux repository using dnf.
On Machine E, set up an ansible host group named saclass which contains the IP address of Machines A, B, C, D and F.
On Machine E, create a script named mkdmuserplay that reads /etc/passwd, /etc/shadow and /etc/group and creates an ansible playbook called dmusers.yaml to set all the parameters (login, UID and GID, gecos, shell, groups, password hash, etc) for all Dunder-Mifflin users and groups.  The script must be stored in the sysadmin home directory and create the YAML file in the current working directory.  The script must ensure that I can run the playbook as you.
Apply the dmusers playbook to machines A, B, C, D and F to ensure that the user information is the same on all machines.
Rename the file you used to set the umask in Lab 3 to /etc/profile.d/umask.sh on all machines.  Create a playbook named umask.yaml in your home directory to copy this file from Machine E to machines A, B, C, D and F.  The file must have root as the owner and group root and permissions rw for the owner and r for the group and other.  Correct any issues from Lab 3 and then use the playbook to make sure that the file on machines A, B, C, D and F is the same as on Machine E.
Students in 5113:  Create a single playbook on Machine E named webcheck.yaml that will make sure that the web servers on Machined C and D are at their latest version and that the web server is running and will start on boot.
Hints:

Case matters in Linux/Unix.  Do not introduce arbitrary upper case letters in file names, user or group names.  This will cause the grading script to mark various tasks as failed.
Be very careful about groups.  You may have groups that exist on machines in the DMZ that does not exist on Machine E.  The dmusers playbook MUST ensure that the managers, accounting and sales groups are present on all machines and contain the right users without messing up special groups on the DMZ machines.  Also watch out for wheel or sudo groups.
I should only need to provide ONE password to run the playbook. The remote user for the playbooks should be the user running it, and then rely on sudo to execute commands that are privileged.  The grading script will provide your password so that ansible can run sudo as you on the remote machines.  (I have a dirty trick to temporarily change your password.)
ansible allows you to do all kinds of clever things in playbooks.  If this is your first time to use ansible, apply the KISS principle.  There are builtin Ansible modules to perform the tasks needed here, you don't need to create new modules.
The location and name of the mkdmuserplay is critical.  Do not add an extension such as .py or .sh to it.  On Unix/Linux the #! line serves that function.
Make sure the YAML files are in your home directory.  That is where the grading script expects to find it.
My grading script uses a dirty trick to change your password on all the machines so that I can pretend to be you. I will use sshpass to provide that password, but note that it will only provide this password once.  Make sure that you do not require the password to be entered multiple times and that all the host keys are known.
What to Submit

A single PDF file containing your notes of how you performed all the tasks in the lab and the time it took you to complete the lab.  Include the approximate time it took to complete the assignment.
I will evaluate your work by changing some of the user data on Machine E, run sudo ./mkdmuserplay as you in your home directory, then run the dmusers ansible playbook as you, and finally check that the user data on Machines A, B, C, D and F change accordingly.
Similarly I will update the /etc/profile.d/umask.sh on Machine E and then run the umask playbook as you and check whether the files on Machines A, B, C, D and F are updated.
Graduate students.  I will similarly run your webcheck playbook as you.
Rubrik

Evaluation	4113	5030	5113
Ansible ping check	25	25	20
Ansible umask	25	25	20
Ansible webcheck.yaml	---	---	20
Ansible dmusers.yaml	50	50	40
Total	100	100	100
